I work alone except when I work with
Ranallo which is all the time showed at
the home star runner
I have no contemporaries here on YouTube
none there is nobody on YouTube
connected to political philosophy
political science history let alone
veganism in specific let alone history
and politics of China in specific
there's nobody I'd want to collaborate
with you could do video with these days
I do not know anybody of intellectual
substance and integrity on this whole
channel and you know what a kid like
cosmic skeptic it's the most tragic sort
of YouTube content for me to behold of
all because I know he means well
and I know his audience means well and
what they're doing is bad and dangerous
and wrong and for me from my perspective
it's also demoralizing because I've got
to look at this and look at the audience
and ask why is nobody in this room
capable of thinking through this problem
through more than a single stage of
analysis in multiple stages of analysis
through multiple angles like somebody
presents you with a glittering
abstraction you don't think okay well
alright that's it it's a nice abstract
ID you've got there but let's think
about that in more than one historical
context let's think about that with
maybe some examples that aren't so
flattering to your assumptions in this
argument just a little bit of lower case
our reasoning to tease out what the
problems might be so this kid cosmic
skeptic made a video has more than
100,000 views now 100,000 uncritical
Adya lating views in which he says it's
okay it's even wonderful and positive
and good for all of us to behave as if
we believe in a principle we know to be
untrue if we think it is useful and
necessary for the greater happiness
of our nation of our society of some
larger number some some unit of people
and no apparently nobody in the audience
thinks this through you more than once
to sit there completely unanimous
applause for this nobody stops and
thinks wait wait a minute wait a minute
this reminds me of centuries of human
history this reminds me of thousands of
years of political debates like you know
there was a time when people thought it
was it had this kind of social utility
to make up stories that you know if you
would fight and die for the Emperor then
you would go to heaven after you died
you'd be rewarded in heaven with virgins
right and there were people
Machiavellian people in positions of
power who knew these things to be untrue
but they propounded them anyway because
they thought it's not true but it's
useful and it's necessary for the
strength of the government for the
stability the peacefulness of the
society as a whole it's necessary for
that greater happiness of the greater
you know what it wasn't just Muslim
countries that is it wasn't just
Christian countries you even see that in
the history of Buddhist nations Buddhist
nations were the religion in theory and
principle sets down that you shouldn't
even kill a mosquito you shouldn't kill
another human being but they managed to
come up with excuses they managed to
reason their way through why it is that
if you kill an enemy if you kill you
know the country next door rather than
citizens your own country in fact that's
good karma and not bad karma and don't
worry the Buddhist monks will sit down
and explain it to you the Buddhist monks
will even do a ceremony where they bless
your saber or your spear before you go
into battle and use a sacred relic of
the but.uh
to tell you that your side is gonna win
and the other side is gonna lose the
these deep hypocrisy exist throughout
our history in terms of them social
engineering in the pre-modern world it
was all based on this premise there were
people who told terrible lies about
sexuality for example and they knew that
these things were not medically real and
makers they knew they weren't in any
sense spiritually or religiously true or
you said well we have to tell these lies
because if we don't you know women are
gonna be getting pregnant with other
men's children and so on you know we
have to tell these lies because if we
don't restrict people's you know sexual
freedom this was the basis of like every
authoritarian Machiavellian regime in
every country and culture all around the
world but here we have this kid telling
us with just a single stage of analysis
the his defense of the doctrine of human
rights is that he knows it to be untrue
but that he wants people to behave as if
it were true because he thinks it's
useful and necessary for the greater
good it says this is dragging us back to
the the dark ages in more ways than one
and what's more disturbing to me even
acknowledging that this is a younger man
than myself is the choice to really
disregard and lie about the history of
the last 100 years now I'm only talking
about 100 years for a reason what we now
call human rights is a doctrine that
emerged after World War two if you don't
believe me let me just briefly remind
you there was a similar-sounding
but profoundly different doctrine during
the French Revolution and the American
Revolution not in that order of the
Rights of Man no they sound similar in
the English language the rights of man
and human rights and they're profoundly
different people who participated in the
American Revolution and that debates
that ensued thereafter and right in the
Constitution so on people who
participate in the French Revolution and
in the debates of the suit thereafter
under Napoleon's dictatorship for
example their concept for example of
human equality in that period the rights
of man fair when they said all men are
born equal to them that only meant
nobody is born a king as opposed to a
commoner nobody is born entitled to
wealth because of their name being an
aristocrat what they meant when they
said all men are born equal was only in
exclusively for example that
your promotion in the military should
not be based on your bloodline in your
connection to a noble household all
right that these were major tensions in
Europe in that time they were tensions
in North America to a lesser extent
their concepts of human equality under
the rights of man had absolutely nothing
to do with equal access to education
completely foreign that's our concept
now after World War Two had nothing to
do with equal access to drinking water
had nothing to do with equal access to
health care and of course most
shamefully the people who wrote the
American Constitution and also by the
way Napoleon himself and his government
they saw no contradiction whatsoever in
promoting their rights of man doctrine
while promoting a society built on
slavery yeah in case you didn't hear
napoleon fought a war to bring back the
slave trade in haiti didn't go very well
for him but nevertheless napoleon also
wanted to have a slave trade in global
empire this is a contrast to him and
other voices in the french revolution
period okay that was that was the rights
of man human rights after world war ii
remarkably different in all these ways
even though some of the jargon is
similar and of course some younger
people find this puzzling how was it
possible for the authors of the american
constitution to live with these
conditions or participants in the french
revolution so and so forth tell me
something kid tell me something cosmic
skeptic how did humans rights work out
after World War two
was it a success or a failure how did
the human rights doctrine play out in
Korea in what we call the Korean War or
the Korean Civil War when the United
States of America committed atrocities
how did the human rights doctrine work
out in China when more than 30 million
people died 30 million is the minimum
estimate in the Great Leap Forward how
did how did human rights doctrine work
out for Cambodia how did the human
rights doctrine work out for apartheid
in South Africa
after World War two how did the human
rights doctrine work out for Yugoslavia
Kosovo I'm sorry the human rights
doctrine is a proven failure and if
you're really an insider with political
science political philosophy you know
this because there was a sort of sequel
doctrine called the r2p doctrine a
responsibility to protect there was
actually recognition within elite levels
of United Nations and international
community to try to set up a new sort of
Human Rights regime that would have some
teeth and enforcement okay the human
rights doctrine failed and failed and
failed from the moment it was first
designed and implemented which I guess
it was during World War two oh yeah you
know a little example you might have
heard of kid have you heard about the
creation of the State of Israel how did
that work out in terms of in terms of
Human Rights
it was that was that not a human rights
disaster from the day get started down
to the present nobody has ever been able
to square the pragmatic reality of
Israel and Zionism and settlements and
borders nothing about Israel has ever
fit into the paradigm of international
human rights law or human rights
doctrine and the whole world just keeps
on trundling ahead and yeah if you want
to get real atheist about it take a good
long look at the reality of Saudi Arabia
in any period of history including today
and ask yourself what human rights
doctor has done about that in the past
and what you think it's likely to do in
the future and you know I may sound
overly cynical here I'm actually very
idealistic because when I look back at
that history post-world war ii inclusive
of Cold War history I'm aware there were
counter examples I actually have a
sophisticated view on this unlike this
piece of mentally disabled poser
cosmic skeptic okay when you have a
sophisticated view of something you
think through more than a single stage
now so you think hey wait if this
doctrine failed there must also be
counter examples in the same period of
history that will illustrate that
failure
will show us the mechanisms were viably
distinguished actually successful
political science policy and there are I
encourage you to google the
jackson-vanik amendment the
jackson-vanik amendment was an economic
trade mechanism legal principle how I'm
gonna put this it was a form of economic
incentive devised in the United States
Congress and Senate that was more
effective than all the threats of
nuclear war it was more effective than
all the grandiose speeches made about
abstract principles of human rights in
the United Nations it was more effective
and just said hey look if you are not
going to recognize in dictatorships like
the Soviet Union that your people who
maybe criticize your government and
unhappy with the government that they
want to leave if you're not gonna let
those people leave than on a
case-by-case basis we're gonna attract
them we're gonna actually carry out
surveillance on this issue and we are
gonna hold you to account and we're
gonna put an economic price on this so
there was a price tag there was a push
and pull mechanism there was enforcement
there was mutual
criticism and oversight and it worked
okay it worked and it probably did more
to transform the Soviet Union than as I
say the stockpiles of nuclear arms and
of course it also intervened and saved
the lives of significant numbers of
unique individual people who in this
manner managed to escape the Soviet
Union and of course they also escaped
the Soviet Union with their criticism
and their direct experience the Soviet
and we were able to speak about what was
wrong in that society and then within
the Soviet Union the leaders who were
not hearing that criticisms wrong people
they'd hear that they'd see that play
out in the Western press it really was a
dynamite highly highly effective
rights enforcement mechanism okay and
again this has application today so you
can imagine if you actually want to spur
Saudi Arabia to transform as a culture
as a you know as a regime you really
could have a sequence of specific
enforced resolutions for the
jackson-vanik amendment that said hey
look Saudi Arabia you like exporting oil
well you know what we can actually have
a global trade agreement that we are
gonna put your oil at an economic
disadvantage by so many points for so
many violations of one or another very
simple principle whether you call that
human rights or not okay so human rights
in the twentieth century I can't even
say it rose and fell if you're familiar
just with the timeline of what happened
in South Korea the Korean War if you're
familiar with the timeline of Israel if
you're even familiar with the timeline
of India after World War two okay the
human rights doctrine was failing from
the moment it was first graded and it
continued failing through the whole Cold
War period and it's still a failure
today so the argument this kid cosmic
skeptic is presenting it's wrong both in
principle and in practice it's wrong
fundamentally in principle to tell
people that they should be willing to
believe in an idea they should be
willing to believe in really this is
talking about a legal regime knowing it
to be untrue knowing it to be false but
believing it to be for the greater good
of the nation down that path lies every
evil of the dark ages in Europe and the
dark ages in Asia and we all know it's
not through some kind of democratic
consensual system that we agree on what
will be for the greatest good of the
greatest number of people there will be
oppressive conformist notions that you
must serve the intro
of the leader of the nation of that
greater good of that greater whole it's
not up to you to choose if not if you
select this is going to be enforced on
people on the contrary the spirit of the
Enlightenment that railed against that
old authoritarian attitude and again
it's a more Machiavellian attitude was
to instead say no profoundly and
fundamentally it does matter if
something is true or untrue it does
matter if something exists or doesn't
exist and that each individual ought to
be free to inquire and to prove or
disprove each principle and to reject
those principles to say no I know that I
owe the state nothing the fact that I'm
a citizen of this country the fact that
the government is sovereign against me
that means nothing and I can go to court
and I can prove that the government is
wrong that was the the breath of fresh
air that blew across Europe and even
though the French Revolution was a
disaster and even though the
dictatorship of Napoleon was a disaster
and even though what was going on in
British politics at that time was a
disaster also Jacobin ISM arose and fell
across all of Europe and most of Europe
became more anti jacket than anything
else
nevertheless fundamentally that
commitment to reason that commitment to
truth for the sake of truth and
rejecting this kind of rationalization
that something may be untrue but is
useful and necessary for the greater
good that was the step forward we had in
the Enlightenment and people who claim
to represent the highest le ideals of
that enlightenment now will in the name
of those ideals on YouTube for a crowd
of 100,000 fans drag us all back to the
dark ages